# Optimenu

Optimenu is a web application designed to enhance restaurant sales and profitability by utilizing machine learning models and analytical tools.
# Our Journey with Optimenu

## The Beginning

Our journey with Optimenu began as a mini-project for our college degree. We came to know about the need of such a tool .Later we ideated to seek a solution that would not only enhance the browsing experience but also provide valuable insights to users.

## Where We Reached

After diligent efforts and continuous development, we successfully built the Optimenu web application. Optimenu revolutionizes the restaurant industry by optimizing sales strategies and maximizing profitability. Key features of Optimenu include:

- **Dynamic Menu Optimization:** Utilizing machine learning models and linear regression, Optimenu predicts the most demanded items, ensuring a dynamic and customer-centric menu.
  
- **Admin Panel with Analytical Tools:** The admin panel offers a range of analytical tools such as slot-wise sales graphs, revenue reports, order details, and predictive analysis based on profit and historical sales data.
  
- **Enhanced User Experience:** Through continuous refinement and user feedback, Optimenu provides an intuitive and efficient platform for restaurant owners to make data-driven decisions and boost sales.

## How Did We Get Here

Our journey with Optimenu involved strategic planning, collaboration, and leveraging key technologies:

1. **Planning and Ideation:** We started by defining the project scope, identifying key objectives, and brainstorming innovative solutions to enhance restaurant sales and profitability.
  
2. **Development of Machine Learning Models:** We developed machine learning models using linear regression to predict high-demand items and optimize the menu dynamically.
  
3. **Frontend and Backend Development:** Leveraging Next.js and tailwind for frontend and frameworks like Express.js, we built a robust frontend interface and a scalable backend architecture for seamless data management and user interaction.
  
4. **Integration of Analytical Tools:** The admin panel was designed with a focus on usability and functionality, integrating analytical tools for comprehensive insights into sales trends and customer preferences.


## Features

### Dynamic Menu

- The menu is dynamically updated based on predictions from a machine learning model using linear regression.
- It displays the most demanded and profit generating items to optimize sales and customer satisfaction.
### Admin Panel

- **Slot-Wise Sales Graphs:** Visual representation of sales data per time slot for better understanding of peak hours.
- **Revenue Reports:** Monthly and daily revenue reports to track financial performance.
- **Order Details:** Detailed information about orders including item quantities, prices, and customer details.
- **Predictive Analysis:** Predictions of high-demand items generated by machine learning models using profit and historical sales data.
## Installation

To run this application locally, follow these steps:


1. Clone the repository:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/anvincs/optimenu-mainp.git
   ```

2. Install dependencies:

    #### FrontEnd

   ```bash
   cd optimenu-mainp/frontend
   npm install
   ```

    #### BackEnd

    ```bash
    cd optimenu-mainp/backend
    npm install
    ```

3. Configure environment variables:

   Create a .env file in the root directory (`optimenu-mainp`) and add the necessary environment variables for MySQL password and JSON Web Token (JWT) password.

   Example .env file:

   ```plaintext
   MYSQL_PASSWORD=your_mysql_password
   JWT_SECRET=your_jwt_secret
   ```

4. Start The application:

    #### FrontEnd

   ```bash
   cd optimenu-mainp/frontend
   npm run dev
   ```

    #### BackEnd

    ```bash
    cd optimenu-mainp/backend
    node app
    ```

    #### Machine Learning

    ```bash
    cd optimenu-mainp/flask
    python app.py
    ```


## Usage

Once the server is running, access the application through your web browser at `http://localhost:3000` .
### Admin Panel

- Access the admin panel by navigating to `http://localhost:3000/admin`.
- Use the provided tools and features for analytical insights and menu management.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! If you'd like to contribute to this project, please follow these guidelines:

1. Fork the repository.
2. Create a new branch (`git checkout -b feature/my-feature`).
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add new feature'`).
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/my-feature`).
5. Create a new Pull Request.


